
The progress we have made over the last five years gives us hope and encouragement. It shows what we can achieve when we work together. Now is not the time to rest.

Now is the time for all South Africans to be part of taking our country forward.

Last year, we embarked on a new chapter in our democracy, launching a National Dialogue at a convention that brought together South Africans from across the country representing all sections of society.

This year, the National Dialogue process will spread across South Africa, reaching every community, every school, every university and college and every part of our society.

Under the guidance of the Eminent Persons Group, consisting of prominent and respected South Africans and led by an inclusive Steering Committee, these public dialogues will give the citizens of this country the opportunity to raise their concerns, aspirations and plans for the future.

These public dialogues will culminate in a National Convention where all of these conversations will be brought together to outline the actions that we must all take to build a better South Africa. These conversations will guide the formulation of an overarching national compact and of the next phase of our National Development Plan beyond 2030.

In building this national consensus, we must draw not only on the shared values of our Constitution, but on the unifying power of sport and the rich diversity of our culture.

As we celebrate those who have reached the heights of global achievement, we must appreciate how sport and cultural activities build a cohesive society.

Harnessing the spirit of the women of 1956, the youth of 1976 and the Constitution of South Africa of 1996, the year 2026 must be a year of transformative change.

This must be the year that we make South Africa stronger. We must fix local government. We must fight crime, corruption and restore trust in the criminal justice system. We must create jobs and livelihoods for every South African, and we must build a state that works for the people.

Above all, we must ensure that this rising tide lifts every South African.

As the economy grows, it should bring into its fold those who have lived on its margins for decades.

Our fight against crime should be felt in the townships and informal settlements as well as the suburbs.

Our schools and hospitals should make no distinction between those arriving at their doors.

In this way, we can build a stronger, more resilient and equal society – one that stands tall among the nations of the world.

We have indeed turned a corner. Now we must look ahead and move with speed.

I thank you.

#GovZAUpdates

Issued by
The Presidency
More from
The Presidency
More on
State of the Nation address